# Evading IDS, Firewalls, and Honeypots
## Lab 1: Perform Intrusion Detection using Various Tools

**Main Functions of IDS**:

*   Gathers and analyzes information from within a computer or a network, to identify the possible violations of security policy
*   Also referred to as a "packet-sniffer," which intercepts packets traveling along various communication mediums and protocols
*   Evaluates traffic for suspected intrusions and signals an alarm after detection

### Task 1: Detect Intrusions using Snort

Snort is an open-source network intrusion detection system, capable of performing real-time traffic analysis and packet logging on IP networks. It can perform protocol analysis and content searching/matching and is used to detect a variety of attacks and probes such as buffer overflows, stealth port scans, CGI attacks, SMB probes, and OS fingerprinting attempts. It uses a flexible rules language to describe traffic to collect or pass, as well as a detection engine that utilizes a modular plug-in architecture.

Uses of Snort:

*   Straight packet sniffer such as tcpdump
*   Packet logger (useful for network traffic debugging, etc.)
*   Network intrusion prevention system

### Task 1: Detect Intrusions using Snort

Snort is an open-source network intrusion detection system, capable of performing real-time traffic analysis and packet logging on IP networks. It can perform protocol analysis and content searching/matching and is used to detect a variety of attacks and probes such as buffer overflows, stealth port scans, CGI attacks, SMB probes, and OS fingerprinting attempts. It uses a flexible rules language to describe traffic to collect or pass, as well as a detection engine that utilizes a modular plug-in architecture.

Uses of Snort:

*   Straight packet sniffer such as tcpdump
*   Packet logger (useful for network traffic debugging, etc.)
*   Network intrusion prevention system

### Task 2: Deploy Cowrie Honeypot to Detect Malicious Network Traffic

Cowrie serves as an SSH and Telnet honeypot, capable of capturing brute-force attacks and the actions taken by attackers within the shell. When operating in medium interaction mode, it replicates UNIX behavior using Python. In high interaction mode, acting as a proxy, it allows observation of attacker actions on another system via SSH and Telnet.

The Cowrie honeypot has default credentials set to **root** (with root as username and taking any character or word as a correct password). After obtaining access to the SSH service, attacker runs the above commands giving him a sense of compromising the target system successfully. However, all these interactions are captured by the virtual environment which was created while setting up Cowrie honeypot, without affecting actual SSH service running on the target system.

## Lab 2: Evade IDS/Firewalls using Various Evasion Techniques

The following are some firewall bypassing techniques

*   Port Scanning
*   Firewalking
*   Banner Grabbing
*   IP Address Spoofing
*   Source Routing
*   Tiny Fragments
*   Using an IP Address in Place of URL
*   Using Anonymous Website Surfing Sites
*   Using a Proxy Server
*   ICMP Tunneling
*   ACK Tunneling
*   HTTP Tunneling
*   SSH Tunneling
*   DNS Tunneling
*   Through External Systems
*   Through MITM Attack
*   Through Content
*   Through XSS Attack

### Task 1: Evade Firewall through Windows BITSAdmin

BITS (Background Intelligent Transfer Service) is an essential component of Windows XP and later versions of Windows operating systems. BITS is used by system administrators and programmers for downloading files from or uploading files to HTTP webservers and SMB file shares. BITSAdmin is a tool that is used to create download or upload jobs and monitor their progress.