# Hacking Web Servers
## Lab 1: Footprint the Web Server

Most people think a web server is just hardware, but a web server also includes software applications. In general, a client initiates the communication process through HTTP requests. When a client wants to access any resource such as web pages, photos, or videos, then the client's browser generates an HTTP request to the web server. Depending on the request, the web server collects the requested information or content from data storage or the application servers and responds to the client's request with an appropriate HTTP response. If a web server cannot find the requested information, then it generates an error message.

### Task 1: Footprint a Web Server using Netcat and Telnet

**Netcat**

Netcat is a networking utility that reads and writes data across network connections, using the TCP/IP protocol. It is a reliable "back-end" tool used directly or driven by other programs and scripts. It is also a network debugging and exploration tool.

**Telnet**

Telnet is a client-server network protocol. It is widely used on the Internet or LANs. It provides the login session for a user on the Internet. The single terminal attached to another computer emulates with Telnet. The primary security problems with Telnet are the following:

*   It does not encrypt any data sent through the connection.
*   It lacks an authentication scheme.

### Task 2: Enumerate Web Server Information using Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE)

Enumerate the directories used by web servers and web applications: `nmap -sV --script=http-enum \[target website\]`

`nmap --script hostmap-bfk -script-args hostmap-bfk.prefix=hostmap- www.goodshopping.com`

Perform an HTTP trace on the targeted domain. In the terminal window, run `nmap --script http-trace -d www.goodshopping.com` This script will detect a vulnerable server that uses the TRACE method by sending an HTTP TRACE request that shows if the method is enabled or not.

check whether Web Application Firewall is configured on the target host or domain. In the terminal window, run `nmap -p80 --script http-waf-detect www.goodshopping.com`

## Lab 2: Perform a Web Server Attack

The attacker tries all possible techniques to extract the necessary passwords, including password guessing, dictionary attacks, brute force attacks, hybrid attacks, pre-computed hashes, rule-based attacks, distributed network attacks, and rainbow attacks. The attacker needs patience, as some of these techniques are tedious and time-consuming. The attacker can also use automated tools such as Brutus and THC-Hydra, to crack web passwords.

### Task 1: Crack FTP Credentials using a Dictionary Attack

`hydra -L /home/attacker/Desktop/Wordlists/Usernames.txt -P /home/attacker/Desktop/Wordlists/Passwords.txt ftp://\[IP Address of Windows 11\]`

### Task 2: Gain Access to Target Web Server by Exploiting Log4j Vulnerability

Log4j is an open-source framework that helps developers store various types of logs produced by users. Log4j which is also known as Log4shell and LogJam is a zero-day RCE (Remote Code Execution) vulnerability, tracked under CVE-2021-44228. Log4j enables insecure JNDI lookups, when these JNDI lookups are paired with the LDAP protocol, can be exploited to exfiltrate data or execute arbitrary code.

## Lab 3: Perform a Web Server Hacking using AI

`Tool: Shellgpt`