# Cloud Computing
## Lab 1: Perform Reconnaissance on Azure

### Task 1: Azure Reconnaissance with AADInternals

AADInternals is primarily focused on auditing and attacking Azure Active Directory (AAD) environments, it can still be utilized as part of a broader cloud reconnaissance effort. This tool has several features such as user enumeration, credential extraction, token extraction and manipulation, privilege escalation, etc.

`Invoke-AADIntReconAsOutsider -DomainName company.com | Format-table`

> we can gather information such as **DNS**, **MX**, **SPF**, **DMARC**, **DKIM** etc.

`Invoke-AADIntUserEnumerationAsOutsider -UserName admin@eccouncil.org`

We can see that the result appears, **True** under **Exists** field which implies that the Azure account with the given username exists and the attacker can perform further attacks.

We can also perform the user enumeration by placing the usernames in a text file, by running `Get-Content .\\users.txt | Invoke-AADIntUserEnumerationAsOutsider -Method Normal` Where the users.txt file contains the target email addresses.

To get login information for a domain type `Get-AADIntLoginInformation -Domain company.com`

To get login information for a user type `Get-AADIntLoginInformation -Domain user@company`

To get the tenant ID for the given user, domain, or Access Token, type `Get-AADIntTenantID -Domain company.com`.

To get registered domains from the tenant of the given domain `Get-AADIntTenantDomains -Domain company.com`

## Lab 2: Exploit S3 Buckets

S3 buckets are used by customers and end users to store text documents, PDFs, videos, images, etc. To store all these data, the user needs to create a bucket with a unique name.

Listed below are several techniques that can be adopted to identify AWS S3 Buckets:

*   **Inspecting HTML**: Analyze the source code of HTML web pages in the background to find URLs to the target S3 buckets
*   **Brute-Forcing URL**: Use Burp Suite to perform a brute-force attack on the target bucket's URL to identify its correct URL
*   **Finding subdomains**: Use tools such as Findsubdomains and Robtex to identify subdomains related to the target bucket
*   **Reverse IP Search**: Use search engines such as Bing to perform reverse IP search to identify the domains of the target S3 buckets
*   **Advanced Google hacking**: Use advanced Google search operators such as **"inurl"** to search for URLs related to the target S3 buckets

### Task 1: Exploit Open S3 Buckets using AWS CLI

## Lab 3: Perform Privilege Escalation to Gain Higher Privileges

### Task 1: Escalate IAM User Privileges by Exploiting Misconfigured User Policy

A policy is an entity that, when attached to an identity or resource, defines its permissions. You can use the AWS Management Console, AWS CLI, or AWS API to create customer-managed policies in IAM. Customer-managed policies are standalone policies that you administer in your AWS account. You can then attach the policies to the identities (users, groups, and roles) in your AWS account. If the user policies are not configured properly, they can be exploited by attackers to gain full administrator access to the target user's AWS account.

## Lab 4: Perform Vulnerability Assessment on Docker Images

### Task 1: Vulnerability Assessment on Docker Images using Trivy

Trivy is a powerful security scanner that detects vulnerabilities and misconfigurations across a wide range of targets, including container images, file systems, Git repositories, virtual machine images, Kubernetes, and AWS. With its comprehensive scanners, Trivy identifies OS package vulnerabilities, sensitive information, IaC issues, and more, providing a robust security solution for your infrastructure.