# Sniffing
Packet sniffing allows a person to observe and access the entire network's traffic from a given point. It monitors any bit of information entering or leaving the network. There are two types of sniffing: passive and active. Passive sniffing refers to sniffing on a hub-based network; active sniffing refers to sniffing on a switch-based network.

Attackers hack the network using sniffers, where they mainly target the protocols vulnerable to sniffing. Some of these vulnerable protocols include HTTP, FTP, SMTP, POP, Telnet, IMAP, and NNTP.

The major difference between a hub and a switch is that a hub transmits line data to each port on the machine and has no line mapping, whereas a switch looks at the Media Access Control (MAC) address associated with each frame passing through it and sends the data to the required port. A MAC address is a hardware address that uniquely identifies each node of a network.

Packet sniffers are used to convert the host system's NIC to promiscuous mode. The NIC in promiscuous mode can then capture the packets addressed to the specific network.

*   **Passive Sniffing**: Passive sniffing involves sending no packets. It only captures and monitors the packets flowing in the network
*   **Active Sniffing**: Active sniffing searches for traffic on a switched LAN by actively injecting traffic into the LAN; it also refers to sniffing through a switch

## Lab 1: Perform Active Sniffing

As a professional ethical hacker or pen tester, the first step is to perform active sniffing on the target network using various active sniffing techniques such as MAC flooding, DHCP starvation, ARP poisoning, or MITM.

Active sniffing involves sending out multiple network probes to identify access points. The following is the list of different active sniffing techniques:

*   **MAC Flooding**: Involves flooding the CAM table with fake MAC address and IP pairs until it is full
*   **DNS Poisoning**: Involves tricking a DNS server into believing that it has received authentic information when, in reality, it has not
*   **ARP Poisoning**: Involves constructing a large number of forged ARP request and reply packets to overload a switch
*   **DHCP Attacks**: Involves performing a DHCP starvation attack and a rogue DHCP server attack
*   **Switch port stealing**: Involves flooding the switch with forged gratuitous ARP packets with the target MAC address as the source
*   **Spoofing Attack**: Involves performing MAC spoofing, VLAN hopping, and STP attacks to steal sensitive information

### Task 1: Perform MAC Flooding using macof

macof is a Unix and Linux tool that is a part of the dsniff collection. It floods the local network with random MAC addresses and IP addresses, causing some switches to fail and open in repeating mode, thereby facilitating sniffing. When the MAC table fills up, the switch converts to a hub-like operation where an attacker can monitor the data being broadcast.

`macof -i eth0 -n 10`

> **\-i**: specifies the interface and **\-n**: specifies the number of packets to be sent (here, **10**).

You can also target a single system by issuing the command `macof -i eth0 -d \[Target IP Address\]` 
> (**\-d**: Specifies the destination IP address).

### Task 2: Perform a DHCP Starvation Attack using Yersinia

In a DHCP starvation attack, an attacker floods the DHCP server by sending a large number of DHCP requests and uses all available IP addresses that the DHCP server can issue. As a result, the server cannot issue any more IP addresses, leading to a Denial-of-Service (DoS) attack. Because of this issue, valid users cannot obtain or renew their IP addresses, and thus fail to access their network. This attack can be performed by using various tools such as Yersinia and Hyenae.

Run `yersinia -I` to open Yersinia in interactive mode.

## Lab 2: Perform Network Sniffing using Various Sniffing Tools

### Task 1: Perform Password Sniffing using Wireshark

Wireshark is a network packet analyzer used to capture network packets and display packet data in detail. The tool uses Winpcap to capture packets on its own supported networks. It captures live network traffic from Ethernet, IEEE 802.11, PPP/HDLC, ATM, Bluetooth, USB, Token Ring, Frame Relay, and FDDI networks.

## Lab 3: Detect Network Sniffing

A professional ethical hacker or pen tester should be able to detect network sniffing in the network. A sniffer on a network only captures data and runs in promiscuous mode, so it is not easy to detect. Promiscuous mode allows a network device to intercept and read each network packet that arrives in its entirety. The sniffer leaves no trace, since it does not transmit data.

Network sniffing involves using sniffer tools that enable the real-time monitoring and analysis of data packets flowing over computer networks. These network sniffers can be detected by using various techniques such as:

*   **Ping Method**: Identifies if a system on the network is running in promiscuous mode
*   **DNS Method**: Identifies sniffers in the network by analyzing the increase in network traffic
*   **ARP Method**: Sends a non-broadcast ARP to all nodes in the network; a node on the network running in promiscuous mode will cache the local ARP address

### Task 1: Detect ARP Poisoning and Promiscuous Mode in a Switch-Based Network

we will detect ARP poisoning in a switch-based network using Wireshark and we will use the Nmap Scripting Engine (NSE) to check if a system on a local Ethernet has its network card in promiscuous mode.

`nmap --script=sniffer-detect <target>` : Checks if a target on a local Ethernet has its network card in promiscuous mode.