# Social Engineering
The objective of the lab is to use social engineering and related techniques to:

*   Sniff user/employee credentials such as employee IDs, names, and email addresses
*   Obtain employees' basic personal details and organizational information
*   Obtain usernames and passwords
*   Perform phishing
*   Detect phishing
*   Use AI to craft phishing mails

## Lab 1: Perform Social Engineering using Various Techniques

There are three types of social engineering attacks: human-, computer-, and mobile-based.

*   **Human-based social engineering** uses interaction to gather sensitive information, employing techniques such as impersonation, vishing, and eavesdropping
*   **Computer-based social engineering** uses computers to extract sensitive information, employing techniques such as phishing, spamming, and instant messaging
*   **Mobile-based social engineering** uses mobile applications to obtain information, employing techniques such as publishing malicious apps, repackaging legitimate apps, using fake security applications, and SMiShing (SMS Phishing)

### Task 1: Sniff Credentials using the Social-Engineer Toolkit (SET)

The Social-Engineer Toolkit (SET) is an open-source Python-driven tool aimed at penetration testing via social engineering. SET is particularly useful to attackers, because it is freely available and can be used to carry out a range of attacks. 

For example, it allows attackers to draft email messages, attach malicious files, and send them to a large number of people using spear phishing. Moreover, SET's multi-attack method allows Java applets, the Metasploit browser, and Credential Harvester/Tabnabbing to be used simultaneously. SET categorizes attacks according to the attack vector used such as email, web, and USB.

## Lab 2: Detect a Phishing Attack

**Task 1: Detect Phishing using Netcraft**

The Netcraft anti-phishing community is a giant neighborhood watch scheme, empowering the most alert and most expert members to defend everyone within the community against phishing attacks. The Netcraft Extension provides updated and extensive information about sites that users visit regularly; it also blocks dangerous sites. This information helps users to make an informed choice about the integrity of those sites.

## Lab 3: Social Engineering using AI

### Task 1: Craft Phishing Emails with ChatGPT