# Denial of Service
Usually, DoS and DDoS attacks exploit vulnerabilities in the implementation of TCP/IP model protocol or bugs in a specific OS.

In general, DoS attacks target network bandwidth or connectivity. Bandwidth attacks overflow the network with a high volume of traffic using existing network resources, thus depriving legitimate users of these resources. Connectivity attacks overflow a computer with a flood of connection requests, consuming all available OS resources, so that the computer cannot process legitimate users' requests.

A DoS attack is a type of security break that does not generally result in the theft of information. However, these attacks can harm the target in terms of time and resources. Further, failure to protect against such attacks might mean the loss of a service such as email. In a worst-case scenario, a DoS attack can mean the accidental destruction of the files and programs of millions of people who happen to be surfing the Web at the time of the attack.

Some examples of types of DoS attacks:

*   Flooding the victim's system with more traffic than it can handle
*   Flooding a service (such as an internet relay chat (IRC)) with more events than it can handle
*   Crashing a transmission control protocol (TCP)/internet protocol (IP) stack by sending corrupt packets
*   Crashing a service by interacting with it in an unexpected way
*   Hanging a system by causing it to go into an infinite loop

## Lab 1: Perform DoS and DDoS Attacks using Various Techniques

In general, the following are categories of DoS/DDoS attack vectors:

*   **Volumetric Attacks**: Consume the bandwidth of the target network or service
    
    Attack techniques:
    
    *   UDP flood attack
    *   ICMP flood attack
    *   Ping of Death and smurf attack
    *   Pulse wave and zero-day attack
*   **Protocol Attacks**: Consume resources like connection state tables present in the network infrastructure components such as load-balancers, firewalls, and application servers
    
    Attack techniques:
    
    *   SYN flood attack
    *   Fragmentation attack
    *   Spoofed session flood attack
    *   ACK flood attack
*   **Application Layer Attacks**: Consume application resources or services, thereby making them unavailable to other legitimate users
    
    Attack techniques:
    
    *   HTTP GET/POST attack
    *   Slowloris attack
    *   UDP application layer flood attack
    *   DDoS extortion attack

### Task 1: Perform a DDoS Attack using ISB and UltraDDOS-v2

ISB (I'm So Bored) and UltraDDOS-v2 are utilities tailored for stress-testing networks on Windows, facilitating the execution of DDoS attacks against target machines.

### Task 2: Perform a DDoS Attack using Botnet

A botnet orchestrates a distributed denial of service (DDoS) attack by harnessing a network of compromised computers (bots). The attacker infects these systems with malware, enabling remote control. Through a command and control server, the attacker directs the botnet to flood the target with excessive traffic, overwhelming its resources. This onslaught disrupts services, causing downtime and financial losses. Attackers may amplify the attack using techniques like reflection or amplification. Mitigation involves filtering and blocking malicious traffic.

## Lab 2: Detect and Protect Against DoS and DDoS Attacks**

Detection techniques are based on identifying and discriminating the illegitimate traffic increase and flash events from the legitimate packet traffic.

The following are the three types of detection techniques:

*   **Activity Profiling**: Profiles based on the average packet rate for a network flow, which consists of consecutive packets with similar packet header information
*   **Sequential Change-point Detection**: Filters network traffic by IP addresses, targeted port numbers, and communication protocols used, and stores the traffic flow data in a graph that shows the traffic flow rate over time
*   **Wavelet-based Signal Analysis**: Analyzes network traffic in terms of spectral components

### Task 1: Detect and Protect Against DDoS Attacks using Anti DDoS Guardian

Anti DDoS Guardian is a DDoS attack protection tool. It protects IIS servers, Apache serves, game servers, Camfrog servers, mail servers, FTP servers, VOIP PBX, and SIP servers and other systems. Anti DDoS Guardian monitors each incoming and outgoing packet in Real-Time. It displays the local address, remote address, and other information of each network flow. Anti DDoS Guardian limits network flow number, client bandwidth, client concurrent TCP connection number, and TCP connection rate. It also limits the UDP bandwidth, UDP connection rate, and UDP packet rate.